# Two way binding

## General event pattern (Let's consider an input field)

- We have a state variable to initialize the value.
- Data flows from our model to view using property binding.
- Now when user types in the field, we listen to the change event.
- Then update the value of the state variable.
- Updated state flows again from model to view.

## Same pattern can be observed during parent child communication.

- Parent sends initial state to the child.
- Child listens to the events and ask parent to update it's state with the parameter supplied to emit.
- Parent's state updates and child receives a new value.

## Conclusion
  
So, a general pattern here is listening to events and then updating the state. That is, we need property binding along with event binding.

- Property binding to allow data to flow from model to view.
- Event binding to listen to some events or user actions and update the state.
- Two way binding combines property and event binding.
- Syntax looks like [()] which is property binding plus the event binding syntax.

## Adding two way binding

`<app-sizer [(size)]="fontSizePx"></app-sizer>`

## How two way binding works

- For every input property(ex size), we must have a corresponding ouptup event whose name must follow the format inputnameChange(ex sizeChange).
-  ` @Input() size!: number | string; @Output() sizeChange = new EventEmitter<number>();`
-  When child component emits an event parent will automatically listen to it and update it's state.
-  Updated state will flow to child component.
-  ` <app-sizer [(size)]="fontSizePx"></app-sizer>`.

> To add two way binding to form elements, we use [(ngModel)].
  
