# Content projection with ng-content

## Why

- To create reusable components.
- Some components do not know their content ahead of time.
- Example a dialog. We know it will always have a header, body and a footer. The structure remains same but on different pages
 of the application, the body might render a table, a form, details of a product etc.
- Other examples can be a card, collapsable panel etc.
- To dynamically pass content (HTML) from parent to children we need content projection.
- Like we send inputs from parent to child, now we are sending kdynamic content.

## How to use it

- In the child we place special placeholders `ng-content` to tell angular where to render content.
- In the parent while invoking the component whatever is placed inside the component selector tag is what will be projected to 
  child.
- `<custom-card><p>This is the projected content</p></custom-card>`.
- All the control lies with the parent. Child just accepts some dynamic data.


## Single slot

- There will be only one placeholder `ng-content`.
- The content will be passed from parent to child.
- That content will be rendered where `ng-content` is placed.

## Multiple slots

- Sometimes we need to project content at multiple places. Consider a dialog component, I want to pass header, body and 
  footer content from the parent.
- So, there will be three placeholders. How does angular know which content to render where.
- I have to give names to my placeholders to distinguish them from one another.
- We have a attribute called `select` that we can use with `ng-content` tag.
- `select` supports all type of component selectors type, attribute and class as well as usual class and attribute selectors.

## ngProjectAs

- Select attribute supports components, classes and attributes.
- It can be hard to read as classes and attributes do not indicate the real purpose whether they are used as classes or for
  content projection.
- So we have a special keyword `ngProjectAs` which is used in the parent.
- Only value of `ngProjectAs` is compared with the value of `select` attribute.


