# Component host elements

- We can invoke our component using type, attribute or class selector.
- The DOM element that matches with the component's selector is called the host element.
- The contents of component's template are rendered inside this host element always.
- There will always be a host element which can be component name, or DOM element depending upon the component selector.

## Binding to host element

- I want to bind to the host element but it is not present in the component's template.
- So, we use a `host` property present inside the `@component` decorator's metadata.
- We can use property bindings, attribute bindings and event bindings with host element from within the component.
- We can assign values in the model to the component's host element using bindings.

## Syntax

[View syntax and examples](https://angular.dev/guide/components/host-elements)


## @Hostbinding

- Bind to the host property or attribute.
- `@HostBinding('attr.aria-valuenow') value: number = 0;`
- `host` way was better because there in one object we could declare all our properties, attributes and events.
- But with `@hostbinding` I have to create seperate variables for each property and attribute. Also, I cannot use existing
  variables.

## @HostListener

- To listen events on the host element.
- `export class CustomSlider {     
  @HostListener('keydown', ['$event'])     
  updateValue(event: KeyboardEvent) {       
    /* ... */        
  }        
}`        
