# Rendering Lists

## Why do we need any loop in general

- We have a task T.
- We want to perform it n times.
- So instead of writing code for that task n times, we use a loop.

## Why

- Task is to render a user.
- I want to render 100 such users.
- We need a loop to perform this task n times.

## Basic for loop

@for (item of items; track item.id) {   
   {{ item.name }}  
}

This is very similar to the for of loop we use in javascript.


## Why do we need Track ?

- Angular renders a list.
- What happens when the collection is modified, insertions, deletions, sorting etc.
- Should angular teardown everything and recreate? But that can have an impact on performance especially if the list size is very large.
- How does angular track which elements need not be recreated. 
- There needs to be some mapping between our array elements in the model and the elements in the view.
- Angular could use index as a key but what happens when we perform insertion, deletion or sorting ?
- In that case the order of elemnts will change and Angular will tear down the previously rendered list and render a new list.
- That costs performance especially if the list size is very big.
- So we specify a unique identifier that can map an element in the DOM to corresponding array value.
- So that angular performs mimimal DOM updates.
- For collections that do not undergo modifications (no items are moved, added, or deleted), using track $index is an efficient strategy.
- For collections with mutable data or frequent changes, select a property that uniquely identifies each item to use as your track expression.

## $index and other contextual variables

Inside the for block we can access some useful context variables like $Index etc. 
See the full list [here](https://angular.dev/guide/templates/control-flow#if-block-conditionals).

## Example

@for (item of items; track item.id; let idx = $index, e = $even) {   
  Item #{{ idx }}: {{ item.name }}   
}

The aliasing is especially useful in case of using nested @for blocks where contextual variable names could collide.
