# Using DOM APIs

- We use DOM API's to add, remove or update nodes, change attributes, properties, styling, attach listeners etc.
- Angular handles most DOM creation, updation and removal for us.
- Always prefer expressing your DOM's structure in component templates and updating that DOM with bindings.
- Angular does all of that for us using bindings.
- But we might rarely have to use DOM API's.

## When to use DOM API's

- Managing element focus.
- Measuring element geometry, such as with getBoundingClientRect.
- Reading an element's text content.
- Setting up native observers such as MutationObserver, ResizeObserver, or IntersectionObserver.


## Mistakes to avoid

- Avoid direct DOM manipulation whenever possible.
- Never directly manipulate or read the DOM inside of other Angular lifecycle hooks. It negatively affects performance.


## Get reference to component's host

- `constructor(elementRef: ElementRef) {}`.
- elementRef will refer to the component's host. We can write this in any component or directive.
- The `nativeElement` property references the host Element instance.
- Then we can query for the elements present in the template which are children of host.
- `elementRef.nativeElement.querySelector('input')?.focus();`
- [Example](https://angular.dev/guide/components/dom-apis)


## Using component's renderer

- `Renderer2` is also used for DOM manipulations. 
- DOM elements created by a component's `Renderer2` participate in that component's style encapsulation.

