# Forms

## Choosing an approach

- Angular provides two approaches to manage forms.
- Template driven and reactive.
- The key differences between the two are based on the four pointers which are


## 1. Setup of form model

- Form model refers to the form data defined in the component class.
- Both reactive and template forms use the common foundation classes which are `FormControl`, `FormGroup`, `FormArray` and `ControlValueAccessor`.
- The difference is how you create and manage the common form-control instances.

## ControlValueAccessor

- We use form elements like `input`, `select`, `checkbox`, `radio`, `textarea` etc. in our UI.
- For every form element in the UI, we have a corresponding `FormControl` in our model.
- But how do the interact with each other.
- Using ControlValueAccessor.

## Setup in reactive forms

- Form model is explicitly defined(in a clear way) in the component class.
- Instance of form control is manually and explicitly created.
- `favoriteColorControl = new FormControl('');`
- We also have a form element in the UI and we want to sync both of them.
- The `[formControl]` directive links the explicitly created `FormControl` instance to a form element in the UI.
- It will listen to all the events and sync it with the form model.
- The form model is the source of truth; it provides the value and status of the form element at any given point in time.

## Setup in template-driven forms

- The form model is implicit, rather than explicit.
- The directive `NgModel` creates and manages a `FormControl` instance for a given form element.
- The source of truth is the template.

## 2. Data flow

- Angular's job is to keep the view and model in sync always.
- In the view lies our form elements which users interact with and change their values.
- These values must be updated in the model as well by angular.
- Similarly if any program logic changes our data model, view should reflect those changes.

## Data flow in reactive forms

- In reactive forms each form element in the view is directly linked to the form model (a FormControl instance).
- Updates from the view to the model and from the model to the view are synchronous.

## From view to model

- User start typing a value in the form Input field.
- Form field has an input event which emits the latest value.
- `ControlValueAccessor` listens to the `input` event and calls the `setValue` method of the `FormControl`.
- `The FormControl` instance emits the new value through the valueChanges observable.
- All the subscribers receive a new value.

## From model to view

- We call the `setValue` method on the `FormControl` instance.
- Calling setValue does two things.
- It emits a new value through `valueChanges` observable and all the subscribers receive a new value.
- It notifies `controlValueAccessor` about the change which then updates the value of the input form element.



