# How to use Reactive forms

## Single form element

- Import `ReactiveFormsModule` from `@angular/forms`.
- Define form model in the class.
- `name = new FormControl('');`
- In the html, define a form element.
- Sync the model and the form element using `formControl` directive.
- `<input id="name" type="text" [formControl]="name">`

## Read formControl value

- ValueChanges observable.
- formControl.value

## Programatically Updating formControl value

- `formControl.setValue`

## Grouping form controls

- A form typically contains many related form controls.
- We have two ways to group controls. `FormGroup` and `FormArray`.

## How to use a form group

- Create a `formGroup` instance.
- In the constructor pass an object with key equals to any name and value the instance of `FormControl`.
- The `FormGroup` instance returns an object of formControls.
- We use `[formGroup]="form"` on form element.
- To sync between UI form element we use `formControlName`.

## Read form group value

- Listen for submit event `ngSubmit`.
- `formGroup.value`

## Nested form groups

- Form groups can accept both individual form control instances and other form group instances as children.
- To manage complex forms into easier smaller sections. Like address can have city, state, zip, country.
- [Examples](https://angular.dev/guide/forms/reactive-forms#group-the-nested-form-in-the-template)


## Updating parts of the data model

- With `setValue` we have to supply values for entire group.
- What if we want to update only one or two fields out of a complex form.
- `patchValue` updates only mentioned field's values whereas `setValue` replaces entire object.

## Using the FormBuilder service

- Currently we are manually creating instances of `formControl` and `formGroup`.
- import {FormBuilder} from '@angular/forms';
- constructor(private formBuilder: FormBuilder) {}
- Instead of creating instances of `FormControl` we sinply declare an empty array.


## Form arrays
