# Typed Forms

- Most of the form API's we interact with, like `form.value`, `form.get('')`, `form.controls` etc. are not type safe.
- Most of these APIs included `any` somewhere in their types, and interacting with the structure of the controls, or the values themselves, was not type-safe. 


## FormControl

- `const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com');`.
- The type of email is automatically infered as `FormControl<string|null>`.
- Typescript will enforce this type in all the APIS like `setValue`, `valueChanges`, `value`.

## Nullability

- The type includes null but why.
- This is because the control can become null at any time, by calling reset.
- To make it non nullable we have to add a property.
- `const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com', {nonNullable: true});`
-  This will cause the control to reset to its initial value, instead of null.


## Specifying an Explicit Type

- If we initialzie a control with default value null, the infered type is always null.
- In that cases, we can explicitly set type for a control.
- `const email = new FormControl<string|null>(null);`

## FormGroup

- The type of `formGroup` is always a `Partial`.
- It is possible to disable few controls within a group. Disabled controls do not show up in the value.
- The `Partial` in this type means that each member might be undefined.
- Typescript will enforce that each control is of type string or undefined or null.
- If you want to access the value including disabled controls, and thus bypass possible undefined fields, you can use `login.getRawValue()`.
