## Signals


## What are signals

- A signal is a wrapper around a value which provides functionalities like reading, updating and notifying to listeners when 
  the value changes.
- Signals can contain any value, from primitives to complex data structures.
- Signals may be either writable or read-only.

## Writable signals

- Wrapper that we added allows updating the value.
- You create writable signals by calling the `signal` function with the signal's initial value which returns a `WrtitableSignal`.
- Writable signals have the type WritableSignal.
- `public count = signal<number>(0)`

## Reading signal's value

- Signals are getter functions - calling them reads their value.
- `console.log('The count is: ' + count())`

## Updating signal's value

- `count.set(3);`
- Use the `.update()` method to compute a new value from the current on.
- `count.update(value => value + 1);`
- Always take care of immutability while updating values to ensure reactive functions like `effect` and `computed` gets triggered.

## Reading signals in OnPush components

- With `OnPush` we manually have to mak a component dirty using `markForCheck`.
- When you read a signal within an `OnPush` component's template, Angular tracks the signal as a dependency of that component.
- When the value of that signal changes, Angular automatically marks the component to ensure it gets updated the next time change detection runs.

> HELPFUL: By default, signals use referential equality (=== comparison).




