# Effects

- Effect is an operation that runs whenever any of the dependencies change.
- Similar to computed but we are not using dependencies to compute a signal value.
- Effect is like a onchange event which fires whenever signal's value changes.
- Effects always run at least once.
- Dependencies can be dynamically added or removed.

## Use cases for effects

- Logging data being displayed and when it changes, either for analytics or as a debugging tool.
- Keeping data in sync with window.localStorage.

## When not to use effects

- Never set signal value inside effects. It can cause infinite circular updates.
- Angular by default prevents you from setting signals in effects. It can be enabled if absolutely necessary by setting the `allowSignalWrites` flag when you create an effect.

## Injection context

- By default, you can only create an effect() within an injection contex.
- Constructor or field initialization.
- [To create an effect outside of the constructor](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#injection-context)
  

## Destroying effects

- When you create an effect, it is automatically destroyed when its enclosing context is destroyed.
- This means that effects created within components are destroyed when the component is destroyed.
- The same goes for effects within directives, services, etc.

## Reading without tracking dependencies

- When we read a signal in a reactive function like computed or effect, it automatically becomes it's dependency.
- We want to read a signal's value without creating a dependency.
- You can prevent a signal read from being tracked by calling its getter with `untracked`.
- If we are accessing an external service which is using signals, then that signal also becomes dependency of effect.
- To resolve this we can use callback version of untracked.
- [Examples](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#reading-without-tracking-dependencies)

## Effect cleanup functions

- Effect run on change of dependencies.
- If we started a long running task and the deps change, I need to cleanup that previous long running task if it did not complete.
- This onCleanup function lets you register a callback that is invoked before the next run of the effect begins, or when the effect is destroyed.
- [Example](https://angular.dev/guide/signals#effect-cleanup-functions)
