# Model inputs

## Why

- Signal inputs are readonly. We cannot update it's value.
- Model inputs allow us to write values to a signal.
- `checked = model(false);`
- When we write a value to a model input, angular can update the value in the parent component as well. This is called two way data binding as values flow in both directions.
- If we want unidirection data flow, use signal inputs.
- If we want two way bindings, use model inputs.

## Two-way binding with signals

- Parent component has a signal property.
- Signal is passed to the child not the value. Till now we were passing a value which was converted to a signal.
- Both parent and child can write values to this signal.
- `<custom-checkbox [(checked)]="isAdmin" />`
- `protected isAdmin = signal(false);`
- [Docs](https://angular.dev/guide/signals/model#two-way-binding-with-signals)


## Two-way binding with plain properties

- Parent will pass plain javascript property to the child.
- Property will be converted into a signal.
- Updating the signal's value will update the property in parent as well.
- [Example](https://angular.dev/guide/signals/model#two-way-binding-with-plain-properties)


## Implicit change events

- When you declare a model input in a component or directive, Angular automatically creates a corresponding output for that model.
- The output's name is the model input's name suffixed with "Change".
- Angular emits this change event whenever you write a new value into the model input by calling its set or update methods.


## Differences between model() and input()

- model() defines both an input and an output. The output's name is always the name of the input suffixed with Change to support two-way bindings.
- ModelSignal is a WritableSignal which means that its value can be changed from anywhere using the set and update methods. When a new value is assigned, the ModelSignal will emit to its output. This is different from InputSignal which is read-only and can only be changed through the template.
- Model inputs do not support input transforms while signal inputs do.

