# Signal queries

- We use queries to get reference to a component, directive or a DOM node.
- Since we are using signals, everytime query result changes, reactive functions like `computed` and `effect` runs.

## viewChild

- `divEl = viewChild<ElementRef>('el')  // Signal<ElementRef|undefined>`.
- `cmp = viewChild(MyComponent); // Signal<MyComponent|undefined>`

## View query options

- First argument is the locator. What are wwe looking for a component, directive or a DOM node.
- Second to configure the behavior of the query.
- View queries accept only one configuration which is `read`.

## Content queriey options

-  First argument is the locator. What are wwe looking for a component, directive or a DOM node.
- Second to configure the behavior of the query.
- Content queries accept two configurations which is `read` and `descendants`.

## Required child queries

- When we query our template, we might or might not find the target.
- If not the signal's value will be undefined.
- This might happen if the target is not in the DOM or hidden by `@if`.
- We can mark our queries as required to indicate there will always be a matching target.
- `existingEl = viewChild.required('requiredEl');     // required and existing result`.
- This will remove undefined from the signal type.
-  If a required query does not find any results, Angular throws an error.
-  Only available for child queries like `viewChild` and `contentChild`.


## Query declarations functions and the associated rules

- Signal queries should always be declared as class property.
- We cannot create a dynamic query outside property initializers like in constructor or class methods.
- [Docs](https://angular.dev/guide/signals/queries#query-declarations-functions-and-the-associated-rules)

## Comparing signal-based queries to decorator-based queries

- [Comparisons](https://angular.dev/guide/signals/queries#comparing-signal-based-queries-to-decorator-based-queries)

